Welcome to text based Yahtzee!  This .txt will quickly cover the basic rules to Yahtzee as well as how to operate this program.

[1] Basic rules:

Players take turns rolling dice and trying to score the highest total of points possible.  Each player rolls five six-sided dice, then decides which dice he/she would like to reroll.  They may choose to roll no dice, all of their dice, or some number of dice inbetween.  After they receive their new array of dice, they may choose to reroll any number of their dice one more time, then they must assign their dice to their score card.  If their array of dice matches the requirement for their scorecard, they score points.  However, if a player chooses a space on their score card to which their array does not meet the requirements, a zero is filled in for the spot and they may not score any points for that category.  Each player takes turns until all of the spots on each player's scorecard is filled, to which the points are totaled and whoever has the most wins!

[2] Categories on the score card:

Ones, Twos, ... Sixes: Gain points equal to the total of all of the specified number rolled in your array.  I.e. If you rolled 1 2 4 4 6 and assigned it to Fours, you would score 8 points.

Bonus: Gain 35 points if categories [0] through [5] total 63 or more at the end of the game.

Three-of-a-Kind: Gain points equal to the total of all of your dice if you rolled at least three of the same number.

Four-of-a-Kind: Gain points equal to the total of all of your dice if you rolled at least four of the same number.

Full House: Gain 25 points if you rolled three dice of the same number as well as two dice of a different number.  I.e. 3 3 3 6 6.

Sm. Straight: Gain 30 points if you rolled a succession of at least four numbers.  I.e. 1 2 3 3 4 or 1 3 4 5 6.

Lg. Straight: Gain 40 points if you rolled a succession of all five of your dice.  I.e. 1 2 3 4 5 or 2 3 4 5 6.

Chance: Gain points equal to the total of all of your dice.  Often best used if you have nowhere else to place your roll.

Yahtzee!: Gain 50 points if all of your dice show the same number.

Bonus Yahtzee!: Gain 100 points if all of your dice show the same number, but can only be assigned if Yahtzee! has already been filled in.

[3] How to operate:

First, each player will be asked to input a username for the game.  You can input anything into this space.

A player's turn starts with their score card, folled by the numbers they've rolled.  If they wish to reroll any of their dice, type the positions of each die with spaces inbetween.  For example, player 1 rolled 1 2 3 5 6, and they wish to attempt a Sm. Straight.  They would type "4 5" and press enter in order to reroll their 5 and 6.  Any input outside the range of 1 to 5 or non-intergers will be rejected and the player will not get another chance.

The computer will show the new array with the rerolled dice and the player will get another chance to reroll any of their dice.  After the result of the final array is displayed, the player's scorecard will be printed again and the player will have to input the number next to the category they wish to place their dice.  For example, if player 1 ended up rolling a 1 2 3 4 6, they would enter "10", in order to assign points to theis Sm. Straight category.  If the player inputs a number outside of range of 0 to 14, 6, a category that has already been filled in, or a non-interger they will be asked to try again.

Finally, after both players have filled their score cards, the computer will display both player's cards, their final scores, and the winner.